AutoML-Plan adopts a best-first search algorithm in order to identify good pipelines. A best-first search algorithm explores an implicitly given graph by assigning a number to each node and choosing in each iteration the node with the currently best (usually lowest) known value for expansion. Expansion means computing all successors of a node. The graph description consists of the root node, the successor computation function used for the expansion, and a predicate over the nodes that tells whether a node is a goal node. The task is to predict the best stock price by automated hyperparameter tuned using AutoML from the root to a goal node with a minimum score, and a best-first algorithm tries to find such a path by expanding the intermediate nodes with minimum scores.

Keywords: Automated Machine Learning, AutoML Tools, Stock Market Prediction, Hyperparameter Tuning, Auto Sk-learn, TPOT, Optimized Machine Learning

Problem Framing 

The problem of the project is set to predict the stock price for the next 10 business days. “10 days” is chosen as the timeframe as short term price movements tend to depend more on trend momentum and price pattern, while long term price movements depend on the fundamentals of a stock (e.g. company management capabilities, revenue model, market demand, macroeconomic factors, etc.). The loss function of the training algorithm is the mean squared error of the 10 predicted stock prices. The training algorithm or optimizer is set to minimize its value, and it serves as the basic performance metric for comparing different models. Other scores are defined to provide more in-depth insights on a model predictability performance and finance-domain-based comparisons between models for investors. Two different prediction approaches are mainly tested, predicting the stock prices for the next 10 days directly and predicting the stock price of the next day 1 at a time. It is suspected that the two different problem framing approaches will result in different abstractions learned hence performance for different use-cases. As different stocks have very different characteristics and the stock prices exhibit different trends, individual models will be built for separate stocks

